abide               anýt                
acele               çabuk               
acemi               toy                 
acý                 keder               
açýk                aleni               
açýkgöz             kurnaz              
açýklama            izah                
ad                  isim                
adalet              hak                 
aday                namzet              
adele               kas                 
adet                tane                
adýl                zamir               
adi                 bayaðý              
affetmek            baðýþlamak          
agu                 zehir               
að                  file                
ahenk               uyum                
aidat               ödenti              
ak                  beyaz               
aka                 büyük               
akýl                us                  
akraba              hýsým               
al                  kýrmýzý             
alaka               ilgi                
alan                meydan              
alelade             sýradan             
aleni               açýk                
alýcý               müþteri             
alim                bilgin              
ama                 fakat               
amaç                gaye                
amade               hazýr               
amele               iþçi                
an                  lahza               
ana                 anne                
anane               gelenek             
aný                 hatýra              
anýt                abide               
aniden              birdenbire          
anlam               mana                
anne                ana                 
ant                 yemin               
apse                iltihap             
ara                 mesafe              
araç                vasýta              
arýza               bozukluk            
arka                geri                
arkadaþ             dost                
armaðan             hediye              
arzu                istek               
asýr                yüzyýl              
asil                soylu               
aþ                  yemek               
aþýrmak             çalmak              
at                  beygir              
ata                 cet                 
atak                giriþken            
atama               nakil               
atamak              tayin etmek         
atölye              iþlik               
avare               aylak               
ayakkabý            pabuç               
aygýt               cihaz               
aylak               avare               
ayraç               parantez            
ayrýcalýk           imtiyaz             
ayrým               fark                
aza                 üye                 
bacý                kýz kardeþ          
baðýmsýz            müstakil            
baðýþlamak          affetmek            
baðnaz              yobaz               
balçýk              çamur               
barýþ               sulh                
basýmevi            matbaa              
basit               kolay               
baþ                 kafa                
baþkaldýrý          isyan               
baþkan              reis                
baþkent             baþþehir            
baþþehir            baþkent             
baþvuru             müracaat            
batý                garp                
bayaðý              adi                 
baytar              veteriner           
bedava              parasýz             
beden               gövde               
beðeni              zevk                
belge               vesika              
bellek              hafýza              
bencil              egoist              
benlik              kiþilik             
beraber             birlikte            
bereket             bolluk              
berrak              duru                
besin               gýda                
beyanat             demeç               
beyaz               ak                  
beygir              at                  
beyhude             boþuna              
biçare              zavallý             
biçim               þekil               
bilakis             tersine             
bilgin              alim                
bilgisiz            cahil               
bilgisizlik         cehalet             
bilhassa            özellikle           
bilim               ilim                
bilinç              þuur                
bina                yapý                
birdenbire          aniden              
birey               fert                
biricik             tek                 
birlikte            beraber             
bitki               nebat               
bolluk              bereket             
boþuna              beyhude             
boylam              meridyen            
boyut               ebat                
bozkýr              step                
bozukluk            arýza               
bucak               nahiye              
buhran              bunalým             
buluþ               icat                
bunalým             buhran              
buyruk              emir                
büro                ofis                
bütün               tüm                 
büyük               aka                 
cahil               bilgisiz            
caka                gösteriþ            
camekan             vitrin              
canlý               diri                
cehalet             bilgisizlik         
celse               oturum              
cemiyet             toplum              
cenup               güney               
cerahat             irin                
cerrah              operatör            
cesur               yürekli             
cet                 ata                 
cetvel              çizelge             
cevap               yanýt               
ceviz               koz                 
cýlýz               sýska               
cihaz               aygýt               
cihet               yön                 
cimri               pinti               
cins                tür                 
civar               yöre                
cömert              eli açýk            
cümle               tümce               
çaba                gayret              
çabuk               acele               
çað                 devir               
çaðdaþ              modern              
çaðrý               davet               
çalgý               saz                 
çalmak              aþýrmak             
çamur               balçýk              
çare                deva                
çeþitli             muhtelif            
çeviri              tercüme             
çevre               etraf               
çýðlýk              feryat              
çýkar               menfaat             
çizelge             cetvel              
çoðunluk            ekseriyet           
çok                 fazla               
dahil               iç                  
daimi               sürekli             
darbe               vuruþ               
dargýn              küs                 
darýlmak            küsmek              
davet               çaðrý               
defa                kere                
deðer               kýymet              
deðerli             kýymetli            
deðnek              sopa                
delil               kanýt               
demeç               beyanat             
denetim             kontrol             
deneyim             tecrübe             
deprem              zerzele             
dergi               mecmua              
derhal              hemen               
deri                ten                 
derslik             sýnýf               
deva                çare                
deve                lama                
devinim             hareket             
devir               çað                 
devre               dönem               
dýþ                 hariç               
dýþalým             ithalat             
dýþsatým            ihracat             
diðer               öbür                
diðeri              öteki               
dil                 lisan               
dilbilgisi          gramer              
dilsiz              lal                 
diri                canlý               
dize                mýsra               
dizi                sýra                
doða                tabiat              
doðal               tabii               
doðu                þark                
doktor              hekim               
dolaþmak            gezmek              
dolayý              ötürü               
donuk               mat                 
doruk               zirve               
dost                arkadaþ             
dönem               devre               
dönemeç             viraj               
döþek               yatak               
duru                berrak              
durum               hal                 
duygu               his                 
duygulu             hassas              
duyuru              ilan                
düþ                 hayal               
düþman              hasým               
düþünce             fikir               
düzen               tertip              
düzmece             sahte               
düzyazý             nesir               
ebat                boyut               
ebedi               sonsuz              
eda                 verme               
edat                ilgeç               
edebiyat            yazýn               
edilgen             pasif               
efe                 zeybek              
egoist              bencil              
eðer                þayet               
ehemmiyet           önem                
ehil                usta                
ek                  ilave               
eklem               mafsal              
ekonomi             iktisat             
ekseriyet           çoðunluk            
eksik               noksan              
elbise              giysi               
eli açýk            cömert              
emir                buyruk              
emniyet             güvenlik            
ender               nadir               
endiþe              kaygý               
endüstri            sanayi              
engel               mani                
enkaz               yýkýntý             
enlem               paralel             
enteresan           ilginç              
esas                temel               
eser                yapýt               
esir                tutsak              
eþek                merkep              
etki                tesir               
etkinlik            faaliyet            
etraf               çevre               
ev                  hane                
evvel               önce                
eylem               fiil                
eylemsi             fiilimsi            
ezgi                melodi              
faaliyet            etkinlik            
faiz                nema                
fakat               ama                 
fakir               yoksul              
fare                sýçan               
fark                ayrým               
fayda               yarar               
fazla               çok                 
felç                nüzul               
fena                kötü                
fer                 ýþýk                
fert                birey               
feryat              çýðlýk              
feza                uzay                
fiil                eylem               
fiilimsi            eylemsi             
fikir               düþünce             
file                að                  
füze                roket               
garip               tuhaf               
garp                batý                
gaye                amaç                
gayret              çaba                
gebe                hamile              
gelecek             istikbal            
gelenek             anane               
gene                yine                
genel               umumi               
gerekli             lüzumlu             
gereksinim          ihtiyaç             
gereksiz            lüzumsuz            
geri                arka                
geveze              lafazan             
gezmek              dolaþmak            
gýda                besin               
giriþken            atak                
giysi               elbise              
giz                 sýr                 
gizli               saklý               
gökyüzü             sema                
görev               vazife              
görünüm             manzara             
gösteriþ            caka                
gövde               beden               
gözlem              rasat               
gramer              dilbilgisi          
grup                öbek                
güç                 zor                 
güçlü               kuvvetli            
güldürü             komedi              
gülünç              komik               
güney               cenup               
güven               itimat              
güvenlik            emniyet             
güz                 sonbahar            
hadise              olay                
hafýza              bellek              
hak                 adalet              
hakim               yargýç              
hal                 durum               
halbuki             oysa                
halk                kamu                
ham                 olmamýþ             
hamile              gebe                
hane                ev                  
hapishane           mahpushane          
hareket             devinim             
hariç               dýþ                 
harp                savaþ               
hasým               düþman              
hasret              özlem               
hassas              duygulu             
hatýra              aný                 
hayal               düþ                 
hayat               yaþam               
hazýr               amade               
hediye              armaðan             
hekim               doktor              
hela                tuvalet             
hemen               derhal              
hýsým               akraba              
hýz                 sürat               
hiddet              öfke                
hikaye              öykü                
his                 duygu               
hisse               pay                 
hudut               sýnýr               
hususi              özel                
hücum               saldýrý             
hür                 özgür               
ýlýca               kaplýca             
ýra                 karakter            
ýrak                uzak                
ýrgat               rençber             
ýrk                 soy                 
ýrmak               nehir               
ýslak               yaþ                 
ýþýk                fer                 
icat                buluþ               
iç                  dahil               
içecek              meþrubat            
içten               samimi              
idadi               lise                
idare               yönetim             
ideal               ülkü                
ihracat             dýþsatým            
ihtiyaç             gereksinim          
ihtiyar             yaþlý               
ikaz                uyarý               
iktisat             ekonomi             
il                  vilayet             
ilan                duyuru              
ilave               ek                  
ilgeç               edat                
ilgi                alaka               
ilginç              enteresan           
ilim                bilim               
iliþki              münasebet           
iltihap             apse                
imkan               olanak              
imla                yazým               
imtihan             sýnav               
imtiyaz             ayrýcalýk           
iri                 kocaman             
irin                cerahat             
isim                ad                  
iskemle             sandalye            
istek               arzu                
istikbal            gelecek             
isyan               baþkaldýrý          
iþ                  meslek              
iþçi                amele               
iþlik               atölye              
ithalat             dýþalým             
itibar              saygýnlýk           
itimat              güven               
itina               özen                
izah                açýklama            
jeoloji             yer bilimi          
kabiliyet           yetenek             
kabus               karabasan           
kafa                baþ                 
kafi                yeter               
kafiye              uyak                
kaide               kural               
kalite              nitelik             
kalp                yürek               
kamu                halk                
kanýt               delil               
kanun               yasa                
kapital             sermaye             
kaplýca             ýlýca               
kara                siyah               
karabasan           kabus               
karakter            ýra                 
karþýn              raðmen              
karþýt              zýt                 
kas                 adele               
katý                misli               
kati                kesin               
kaygý               endiþe              
kayýp               yitik               
keder               acý                 
kelime              sözcük              
kenar               kýyý                
kent                þehir               
kere                defa                
kesin               kati                
kýlavuz             rehber              
kýrmýzý             al                  
kýyý                kenar               
kýymet              deðer               
kýymetli            deðerli             
kýz kardeþ          bacý                
kir                 pislik              
kirli               pis                 
kiþi                þahýs               
kiþilik             benlik              
kocaman             iri                 
kolay               basit               
komedi              güldürü             
komik               gülünç              
kontrol             denetim             
konuk               misafir             
korkak              ödlek               
koþul               þart                
koz                 ceviz               
kötü                fena                
kural               kaide               
kurnaz              açýkgöz             
kurum               müessese            
kuþak               nesil               
kuþku               þüphe               
kutlama             tebrik              
kutsal              mukaddes            
kuvvetli            güçlü               
kuzey               þimal               
küçük               ufak                
küs                 dargýn              
küsmek              darýlmak            
laf                 söz                 
lafazan             geveze              
lahza               an                  
lal                 dilsiz              
lama                deve                
latife              þaka                
lider               önder               
lisan               dil                 
lise                idadi               
lügat               sözlük              
lüzumlu             gerekli             
lüzumsuz            gereksiz            
mabet               tapýnak             
macera              serüven             
mafsal              eklem               
maðlup              yenik               
mahalli             yerel               
mahcup              utangaç             
mahluk              yaratýk             
mahpushane          hapishane           
mahsul              ürün                
mana                anlam               
mani                engel               
manzara             görünüm             
mat                 donuk               
matbaa              basýmevi            
matem               yas                 
mebus               milletvekili        
mecburi             zorunlu             
mecmua              dergi               
medeni              uygar               
medeniyet           uygarlýk            
mektep              okul                
mektup              name                
melodi              ezgi                
memleket            ülke                
menfaat             çýkar               
menfi               olumsuz             
menkul              taþýnýr             
mera                otlak               
merasim             tören               
meridyen            boylam              
merkep              eþek                
mesafe              ara                 
mesela              örneðin             
mesele              sorun               
meslek              iþ                  
mesul               sorumlu             
mesuliyet           sorumluluk          
mesut               mutlu               
meþhur              ünlü                
meþrubat            içecek              
metelik             zýrnýk              
metot               yöntem              
mevcut              var                 
meydan              alan                
mýsra               dize                
millet              ulus                
milletvekili        mebus               
milli               ulusal              
misafir             konuk               
misal               örnek               
misli               katý                
modern              çaðdaþ              
muallim             öðretmen            
muavin              yardýmcý            
muhtelif            çeþitli             
mukaddes            kutsal              
muþtu               müjde               
mutlu               mesut               
müessese            kurum               
mühim               önemli              
müjde               muþtu               
mükafat             ödül                
mümkün              olasý               
münakaþa            tartýþma            
münasebet           iliþki              
müracaat            baþvuru             
müsabaka            yarýþma             
müsait              uygun               
müspet              olumlu              
müstahsil           üretici             
müstakil            baðýmsýz            
müþteri             alýcý               
nadir               ender               
nahiye              bucak               
nakil               atama               
nakit               para                
nakliyeci           taþýmacý            
name                mektup              
namzet              aday                
nasihat             öðüt                
nebat               bitki               
neden               sebep               
nefes               soluk               
nehir               ýrmak               
nem                 rutubet             
nema                faiz                
nesil               kuþak               
nesir               düzyazý             
neþe                sevinç              
neþeli              þen                 
netice              sonuç               
nihayet             son                 
nispet              oran                
nitelik             kalite              
noksan              eksik               
nutuk               söylev              
nüzul               felç                
ofis                büro                
okul                mektep              
olanak              imkan               
olasý               mümkün              
olay                hadise              
olmamýþ             ham                 
olumlu              müspet              
olumsuz             menfi               
onarým              tamir               
onay                tasdik              
onur                þeref               
operatör            cerrah              
oran                nispet              
orijinal            özgün               
ortaokul            rüþtiye             
otlak               mera                
oturum              celse               
ova                 yazý                
oy                  rey                 
oysa                halbuki             
ozan                þair                
öbek                grup                
öbür                diðer               
ödenti              aidat               
ödlek               korkak              
ödül                mükafat             
ödün                taviz               
öfke                hiddet              
öge                 unsur               
öðrenci             talebe              
öðrenim             tahsil              
öðretmen            muallim             
öðüt                nasihat             
önce                evvel               
önder               lider               
önem                ehemmiyet           
önemli              mühim               
öneri               teklif              
önlem               tedbir              
örgüt               teþkilat            
örneðin             mesela              
örnek               misal               
öteki               diðeri              
ötürü               dolayý              
öykü                hikaye              
özel                hususi              
özellikle           bilhassa            
özen                itina               
özgün               orijinal            
özgür               hür                 
özlem               hasret              
pabuç               ayakkabý            
para                nakit               
paralel             enlem               
parantez            ayraç               
parasýz             bedava              
pasif               edilgen             
pay                 hisse               
pinti               cimri               
pis                 kirli               
pislik              kir                 
politika            siyaset             
raðmen              karþýn              
rasat               gözlem              
rastlantý           tesadüf             
rehber              kýlavuz             
reis                baþkan              
rençber             ýrgat               
rey                 oy                  
roket               füze                
rutubet             nem                 
rüþtiye             ortaokul            
rüzgar              yel                 
sade                yalýn               
saðlýk              sýhhat              
sahte               düzmece             
saklý               gizli               
saldýrý             hücum               
samimi              içten               
sanayi              endüstri            
sandalye            iskemle             
savaþ               harp                
saygýnlýk           itibar              
saz                 çalgý               
sebep               neden               
sema                gökyüzü             
sene                yýl                 
sermaye             kapital             
serüven             macera              
sevinç              neþe                
sýçan               fare                
sýhhat              saðlýk              
sýnav               imtihan             
sýnýf               derslik             
sýnýr               hudut               
sýr                 giz                 
sýra                dizi                
sýradan             alelade             
sýska               cýlýz               
siyah               kara                
siyaset             politika            
soluk               nefes               
son                 nihayet             
sonbahar            güz                 
sonsuz              ebedi               
sonuç               netice              
sopa                deðnek              
sorumlu             mesul               
sorumluluk          mesuliyet           
sorun               mesele              
soy                 ýrk                 
soylu               asil                
sömestri            yarýyýl             
söylev              nutuk               
söz                 laf                 
sözcük              kelime              
sözlük              lügat               
step                bozkýr              
subay               zabit               
sulh                barýþ               
suni                yapay               
surat               yüz                 
sürat               hýz                 
sürekli             daimi               
þafak               tan                 
þahýs               kiþi                
þahit               tanýk               
þair                ozan                
þaka                latife              
þans                talih               
þark                doðu                
þart                koþul               
þayet               eðer                
þehir               kent                
þekil               biçim               
þen                 neþeli              
þeref               onur                
þimal               kuzey               
þimendifer          tren                
þöhret              ün                  
þuur                bilinç              
þüphe               kuþku               
tabiat              doða                
tabii               doðal               
tahsil              öðrenim             
talebe              öðrenci             
talih               þans                
tamir               onarým              
tan                 þafak               
tane                adet                
tanýk               þahit               
taným               tarif               
tapýnak             mabet               
taraf               yan                 
tarým               ziraat              
tarif               taným               
tartýþma            münakaþa            
tasdik              onay                
taþýmacý            nakliyeci           
taþýnýr             menkul              
taviz               ödün                
tayin etmek         atamak              
tayyare             uçak                
tebrik              kutlama             
tecrübe             deneyim             
tedbir              önlem               
tek                 biricik             
teklif              öneri               
temel               esas                
ten                 deri                
tercüme             çeviri              
tersine             bilakis             
tertip              düzen               
tesadüf             rastlantý           
tesir               etki                
teþkilat            örgüt               
toplam              yekün               
toplum              cemiyet             
toy                 acemi               
tören               merasim             
tren                þimendifer          
tuhaf               garip               
tutsak              esir                
tuvalet             hela                
tüm                 bütün               
tümce               cümle               
tümör               ur                  
tür                 cins                
uçak                tayyare             
uçurum              yar                 
ufak                küçük               
ulu                 yüce                
ulus                millet              
ulusal              milli               
umumi               genel               
umut                ümit                
unsur               öge                 
ur                  tümör               
us                  akýl                
usta                ehil                
utangaç             mahcup              
uyak                kafiye              
uyarý               ikaz                
uygar               medeni              
uygarlýk            medeniyet           
uygun               müsait              
uyum                ahenk               
uzak                ýrak                
uzay                feza                
ülke                memleket            
ülkü                ideal               
ümit                umut                
ün                  þöhret              
ünlü                meþhur              
üretici             müstahsil           
ürün                mahsul              
üye                 aza                 
vakit               zaman               
var                 mevcut              
varlýklý            zengin              
vasýta              araç                
vatan               yurt                
vazife              görev               
verme               eda                 
vesika              belge               
veteriner           baytar              
vilayet             il                  
viraj               dönemeç             
vitrin              camekan             
vuruþ               darbe               
yalýn               sade                
yan                 taraf               
yanýt               cevap               
yapay               suni                
yapý                bina                
yapýt               eser                
yar                 uçurum              
yarar               fayda               
yaratýk             mahluk              
yardýmcý            muavin              
yargýç              hakim               
yarýþma             müsabaka            
yarýyýl             sömestri            
yas                 matem               
yasa                kanun               
yaþ                 ýslak               
yaþam               hayat               
yaþlý               ihtiyar             
yatak               döþek               
yazý                ova                 
yazým               imla                
yazýn               edebiyat            
yekün               toplam              
yel                 rüzgar              
yemek               aþ                  
yemin               ant                 
yenik               maðlup              
yer bilimi          jeoloji             
yerel               mahalli             
yetenek             kabiliyet           
yeter               kafi                
yýkýntý             enkaz               
yýl                 sene                
yine                gene                
yitik               kayýp               
yobaz               baðnaz              
yoksul              fakir               
yön                 cihet               
yönetim             idare               
yöntem              metot               
yöre                civar               
yurt                vatan               
yüce                ulu                 
yürek               kalp                
yürekli             cesur               
yüz                 surat               
yüzyýl              asýr                
zabit               subay               
zaman               vakit               
zamir               adýl                
zarar               ziyan               
zavallý             biçare              
zehir               agu                 
zengin              varlýklý            
zerzele             deprem              
zevk                beðeni              
zeybek              efe                 
zýrnýk              metelik             
zýt                 karþýt              
ziraat              tarým               
zirve               doruk               
ziyan               zarar               
zor                 güç                 
zorunlu             mecburi             